# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv pip compile setup.py -o requirements.txt
amqp==5.3.1
    # via kombu
appy==1.0.19
    # via django-appypod
argdispatch==1.4.0
    # via pdfimpose
asgiref==3.9.1
    # via django
async-timeout==5.0.1
    # via redis
attrs==25.3.0
    # via
    #   fiona
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
beautifulsoup4==4.13.5
    # via mapentity
billiard==4.2.1
    # via celery
brotli==1.1.0
    # via fonttools
btrees==6.1
    # via zodb
cachetools==6.2.0
    # via large-image
cairocffi==1.7.1
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   cairosvg
    #   mapentity
cairosvg==2.8.2
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
celery==5.5.3
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   django-celery-results
certifi==2025.8.3
    # via
    #   fiona
    #   requests
    #   sentry-sdk
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   cairocffi
    #   persistent
    #   pyvips
    #   weasyprint
chardet==5.2.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
charset-normalizer==3.4.3
    # via
    #   reportlab
    #   requests
click==8.1.8
    # via
    #   celery
    #   click-didyoumean
    #   click-plugins
    #   click-repl
    #   cligj
    #   fiona
click-didyoumean==0.3.1
    # via celery
click-plugins==1.1.1.2
    # via
    #   celery
    #   fiona
click-repl==0.3.0
    # via celery
cligj==0.7.2
    # via fiona
coreapi==2.3.3
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   drf-yasg
coreschema==0.0.4
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   coreapi
    #   drf-yasg
crispy-bootstrap4==2025.6
    # via mapentity
cssselect2==0.8.0
    # via
    #   cairosvg
    #   svglib
    #   weasyprint
datetime==5.5
    # via appy
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via cairosvg
django==4.2.24
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   crispy-bootstrap4
    #   django-appconf
    #   django-appypod
    #   django-celery-results
    #   django-clearcache
    #   django-compressor
    #   django-crispy-forms
    #   django-embed-video
    #   django-filter
    #   django-js-asset
    #   django-large-image
    #   django-leaflet
    #   django-modelcluster
    #   django-modeltranslation
    #   django-tinymce
    #   django-treebeard
    #   django-weasyprint
    #   djangorestframework
    #   djangorestframework-gis
    #   drf-extensions
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   drf-yasg
    #   easy-thumbnails
    #   mapentity
    #   paperclip
django-appconf==1.1.0
    # via django-compressor
django-appypod==2.0.7
    # via mapentity
django-celery-results==2.6.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-clearcache==1.2.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-colorfield==0.14.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-compressor==4.5.1
    # via mapentity
django-crispy-forms==2.4
    # via
    #   crispy-bootstrap4
    #   mapentity
django-embed-video==1.4.10
    # via
    #   mapentity
    #   paperclip
django-filter==25.1
    # via
    #   djangorestframework-gis
    #   mapentity
django-js-asset==3.1.2
    # via django-mptt
django-large-image==0.10.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-leaflet==0.19.post11
    # via mapentity
django-maintenance-mode==0.22.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-modelcluster==6.4
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-modeltranslation==0.19.17
    # via mapentity
django-mptt==0.18.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-tinymce==4.1.0
    # via mapentity
django-treebeard==4.7.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
django-weasyprint==2.4.0
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   mapentity
djangorestframework==3.16.1
    # via
    #   django-large-image
    #   djangorestframework-datatables
    #   djangorestframework-gis
    #   drf-extensions
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   drf-yasg
    #   mapentity
djangorestframework-datatables==0.7.2
    # via mapentity
djangorestframework-gis==1.2.0
    # via mapentity
docutils==0.22
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
drf-dynamic-fields==0.4.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
drf-extensions==0.8.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
drf-spectacular==0.28.0
    # via django-large-image
drf-yasg==1.21.5
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
easy-thumbnails==2.10.1
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   mapentity
    #   paperclip
filelock==3.19.1
    # via django-large-image
fiona==1.10.1
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   mapentity
fonttools==4.59.2
    # via weasyprint
geojson==3.2.0
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   tif2geojson
gevent==25.8.2
    # via gunicorn
gpxpy==1.6.2
    # via mapentity
greenlet==3.2.4
    # via gevent
gunicorn==23.0.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
idna==3.10
    # via requests
importlib-metadata==8.7.0
    # via pygal
inflection==0.5.1
    # via
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   drf-yasg
itypes==1.2.0
    # via coreapi
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via coreschema
jsonschema==4.25.1
    # via drf-spectacular
jsonschema-specifications==2025.9.1
    # via jsonschema
kombu==5.5.4
    # via celery
landez==2.5.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
large-image==1.32.11
    # via
    #   django-large-image
    #   large-image-source-vips
large-image-source-vips==1.32.11
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
lxml==4.9.3
    # via
    #   mapentity
    #   svglib
mapentity==8.14.2
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
markdown==3.9
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via jinja2
mbutil==0.3.0
    # via landez
numpy==2.2.4
    # via
    #   large-image
    #   large-image-source-vips
    #   shapely
packaging==25.0
    # via
    #   drf-extensions
    #   drf-yasg
    #   gunicorn
    #   kombu
    #   large-image-source-vips
palettable==3.3.3
    # via large-image
paperclip==2.7.4
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   mapentity
papersize==1.6.0
    # via pdfimpose
pdfimpose==2.7.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
persistent==6.1.1
    # via
    #   btrees
    #   zodb
pillow==11.3.0
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   cairosvg
    #   django-colorfield
    #   easy-thumbnails
    #   large-image
    #   paperclip
    #   reportlab
    #   weasyprint
prompt-toolkit==3.0.52
    # via click-repl
psycopg2==2.9.10
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
pycparser==2.23
    # via cffi
pydyf==0.11.0
    # via weasyprint
pygal==3.0.5
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
pymemcache==4.0.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
pymupdf==1.26.4
    # via pdfimpose
pyopenair==1.2.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
pyphen==0.17.2
    # via weasyprint
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via celery
python-dotenv==1.1.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
python-fsutil==0.15.0
    # via django-maintenance-mode
python-magic==0.4.27
    # via paperclip
pytz==2025.2
    # via
    #   datetime
    #   drf-yasg
pyvips==3.0.0
    # via large-image-source-vips
pyxdg==0.28
    # via pdfimpose
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via drf-spectacular
rcssmin==1.1.2
    # via django-compressor
redis==6.4.0
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
referencing==0.36.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
reportlab==4.4.3
    # via
    #   easy-thumbnails
    #   svglib
requests==2.32.5
    # via
    #   coreapi
    #   django-embed-video
    #   landez
    #   mapentity
rjsmin==1.2.2
    # via django-compressor
rpds-py==0.27.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
ruamel-yaml==0.18.15
    # via drf-yasg
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.12
    # via ruamel-yaml
sentry-sdk==2.37.1
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
setuptools==80.9.0
    # via
    #   argdispatch
    #   zc-lockfile
    #   zope-deferredimport
    #   zope-event
    #   zope-interface
    #   zope-proxy
shapely==2.0.7
    # via pyopenair
simplekml==1.3.6
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
six==1.17.0
    # via python-dateutil
soupsieve==2.8
    # via beautifulsoup4
sqlparse==0.5.3
    # via django
svglib==1.5.1
    # via easy-thumbnails
tif2geojson==0.1.3
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
tinycss2==1.4.0
    # via
    #   cairosvg
    #   cssselect2
    #   svglib
    #   weasyprint
tinyhtml5==2.0.0
    # via weasyprint
transaction==5.0
    # via zodb
typing-extensions==4.15.0
    # via
    #   asgiref
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   django-modeltranslation
    #   large-image
    #   referencing
tzdata==2025.2
    # via
    #   kombu
    #   mapentity
uritemplate==4.2.0
    # via
    #   coreapi
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   drf-yasg
urllib3==2.5.0
    # via
    #   requests
    #   sentry-sdk
vine==5.1.0
    # via
    #   amqp
    #   celery
    #   kombu
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
weasyprint==66.0
    # via
    #   geotrek (setup.py)
    #   django-weasyprint
    #   mapentity
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   cssselect2
    #   tinycss2
    #   tinyhtml5
xlrd==2.0.2
    # via geotrek (setup.py)
xmltodict==1.0.0
    # via tif2geojson
zc-lockfile==3.0.post1
    # via zodb
zconfig==4.2
    # via zodb
zipp==3.23.0
    # via importlib-metadata
zodb==6.0.1
    # via appy
zodbpickle==4.2
    # via zodb
zope-deferredimport==6.0
    # via persistent
zope-event==6.0
    # via gevent
zope-interface==8.0
    # via
    #   btrees
    #   datetime
    #   gevent
    #   persistent
    #   transaction
    #   zodb
    #   zope-proxy
zope-proxy==7.0
    # via zope-deferredimport
zopfli==0.2.3.post1
    # via fonttools
