docs/advanced-configuration/modules-and-components.rst, before:

.. _modules-and-components:

=======================
Modules and components
=======================

.. info::
  
  For a complete list of available parameters, refer to the default values in `geotrek/settings/base.py <https://github.com/GeotrekCE/Geotrek-admin/blob/master/geotrek/settings/base.py>`_.
  
Enable Apps
------------

To disable specific modules, modify the custom settings file by adding the following code:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: disable-app-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
              # Disable infrastructure and maintenance modules
              _INSTALLED_APPS = list(INSTALLED_APPS)
              _INSTALLED_APPS.remove('geotrek.infrastructure')
              _INSTALLED_APPS.remove('geotrek.maintenance')
              INSTALLED_APPS = _INSTALLED_APPS

    .. md-tab-item:: Default Enabled Modules

         .. code-block:: python
    
              INSTALLED_APPS = (
                'geotrek.cirkwi',
                'geotrek.authent',
                'geotrek.common',
                'geotrek.altimetry',
                'geotrek.core',
                'geotrek.infrastructure',
                'geotrek.signage',
                'geotrek.maintenance',
                'geotrek.zoning',
                'geotrek.land',
                'geotrek.trekking',
                'geotrek.tourism',
                'geotrek.flatpages',
                'geotrek.feedback',
                'geotrek.api',
              )

Trail model enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This parameter allows enabling or disabling the Trail module:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: trail-model-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TRAIL_MODEL_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TRAIL_MODEL_ENABLED = False

Landedge model enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This parameter allows enabling or disabling the Landedge module:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: landedge-model-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration
    
         .. code-block:: python
    
                LANDEDGE_MODEL_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                LANDEDGE_MODEL_ENABLED = False
                
Tourism enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This setting enables or disables tourism-related menus, such as touristic content and events:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: tourism-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TOURISM_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TOURISM_ENABLED = False

Flatpages enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flatpages are used in Geotrek-rando and Geotrek-mobile. This setting allows enabling or disabling them in the Django menus:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: flatpages-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                FLATPAGES_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                FLATPAGES_ENABLED = False

Accessibility attachments enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This setting enables or disables the accessibility menu for attachments:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: accessibility-attachements-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ACCESSIBILITY_ATTACHMENTS_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ACCESSIBILITY_ATTACHMENTS_ENABLED = False

.. note::
  - Disabling some modules may cause compatibility issues during software upgrades.
  - If you seek community support, mention any customizations you have made.

Paths
------

Allow path deletion enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``False``, paths that are linked to at least one topology cannot be deleted:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: allow-path-deletion-topology-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALLOW_PATH_DELETION_TOPOLOGY = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALLOW_PATH_DELETION_TOPOLOGY = True

Alert draft
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``True``, managers will receive an email notification whenever a path is changed to draft:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: alert-draft-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_DRAFT = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_DRAFT = True

Alert review
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``True``, managers will receive an email notification whenever an object that can be validated is moved to review mode:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: alert-review-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_REVIEW = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_REVIEW = True

Signage and Blade
-------------------

These parameters enable or disable submodules for signage blades and lines:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: signage-blade-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_ENABLED = True
                LINE_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_ENABLED = False
                LINE_ENABLED = True

These parameters are used to have ``direction`` field on lines instead of blades.

.. md-tab-set::
  :name: direction-on-lines-enabled-tabs

  .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

      .. code-block:: python

              DIRECTION_ON_LINES_ENABLED = False

  .. md-tab-item:: Example

      .. code-block:: python

              DIRECTION_ON_LINES_ENABLED = True

Blade code type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can change the type of the blade code field (string or integer):

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: blade-code-type-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_CODE_TYPE = INT

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_CODE_TYPE = STR


Blade code format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can modify the format of blade codes:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: blade-code-format-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

              BLADE_CODE_FORMAT = "{signagecode}-{bladenumber}"

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. info::
            Example display: ``CD99.XIDNZEIU.01 (first blade of XIDNZEIU)``

          .. code-block:: python
      
                BLADE_CODE_FORMAT = "CD99.{signagecode}.{bladenumber}"
        
Line code format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can modify the format of line codes. This setting is used in CSV exports for lines:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: line-code-format-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LINE_CODE_FORMAT = "{signagecode}-{bladenumber}-{linenumber}"

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. info::
            Example display: ``CD99.XIDNZEIU-01.02``

          .. code-block:: python
      
                LINE_CODE_FORMAT = "CD99.{signagecode}-{bladenumber}.{linenumber}"
         
.. _trek-poi-intersection:

POI
----

Trek POI intersection margin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can define a buffer around treks to intersect POIs (works only without dynamic segmentation).

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: trek-poi-intersection-marging-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TREK_POI_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 500  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TREK_POI_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 800  # meters

Land
-----

You can insert circulation and authorization types using this command:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-circulation-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/land/fixtures/circulations.json

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/land/fixtures/circulations.json

.. _outdoor:

Outdoor
--------

Installed app for Outdoor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable the Outdoor module, add the following code to the custom settings file:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS += ('geotrek.outdoor', )

Then run:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: install-outdoor-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo dpkg-reconfigure -pcritical geotrek-admin

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web update.sh

To insert Outdoor minimal data:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-outdoor-minimal-data-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/outdoor/fixtures/basic.json

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/outdoor/fixtures/basic.json

After installing the Outdoor module, you need to add permissions to user groups for outdoor sites and courses.

.. note::
  - The Outdoor module is not compatible with PostGIS <= 2.4, included in Ubuntu 18.04.
  - Upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04 or upgrade PostGIS to 2.5 via https://launchpad.net/~ubuntugis/+archive/ubuntu/ppa


.. _sensitivity:

Sensitive areas
-----------------

.. note::
    - The sensitivity module was developed as part of the Biodiv'Sports project to provide a central platform for managing sensitive areas.

    - The official address of the Geotrek instance for Biodiv'Sports is: https://biodiv-sports.fr, which serves as the base URL for API calls.

Installed app for Sensitive areas
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable the Sensitivity module, add the following code to the custom settings file:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS += ('geotrek.sensitivity', )

To insert sensitivity area rules:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-sensitivity-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/rules.json
                cp -r /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/upload/rules/ /opt/geotrek-admin/var/media/upload/

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/rules.json
                cp -r /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/upload/rules/ /opt/geotrek-admin/var/media/upload/

Sensitivity default radius
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Defines the radius of sensitivity areas when not specified for species:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: sensitivity-default-radius-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVITY_DEFAULT_RADIUS = 100  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVITY_DEFAULT_RADIUS = 200  # meters

Sensitive area intersection margin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Defines the buffer around treks to intersect sensitive areas:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: sensitive-areas-intersection-margin-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVE_AREA_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 500  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVE_AREA_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 800  # meters

.. note::
  If you modify this value after adding data, you must update the buffered geometry in SQL:
  ``UPDATE sensitivity_sensitivearea SET geom_buffered = ST_BUFFER(geom, <your new value>);``

.. seealso::
  See :ref:sensitive-areas-import for data import instructions.

Zoning
--------

These parameters enable or disable zoning combo-boxes in the list map view:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: zoning-combo-boxes-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LAND_BBOX_CITIES_ENABLED = True
              LAND_BBOX_DISTRICTS_ENABLED = True
              LAND_BBOX_AREAS_ENABLED = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LAND_BBOX_CITIES_ENABLED = False
              LAND_BBOX_DISTRICTS_ENABLED = False
              LAND_BBOX_AREAS_ENABLED = False

.. image:: ../images/advanced-configuration/zoning-combo-boxes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Zoning combo boxes

Commit message:

Improve doc advanced configuration and integration of diff

docs/advanced-configuration/modules-and-components.rst, after:

.. _modules-and-components:

=======================
Modules and components
=======================

.. info::
  
  For a complete list of available parameters, refer to the default values in `geotrek/settings/base.py <https://github.com/GeotrekCE/Geotrek-admin/blob/master/geotrek/settings/base.py>`_.
  
Enable Apps
------------

To disable specific modules, modify the custom settings file by adding the following code:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: disable-app-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
              # Disable infrastructure and maintenance modules
              _INSTALLED_APPS = list(INSTALLED_APPS)
              _INSTALLED_APPS.remove('geotrek.infrastructure')
              _INSTALLED_APPS.remove('geotrek.maintenance')
              INSTALLED_APPS = _INSTALLED_APPS

    .. md-tab-item:: Default Enabled Modules

         .. code-block:: python
    
              INSTALLED_APPS = (
                'geotrek.cirkwi',
                'geotrek.authent',
                'geotrek.common',
                'geotrek.altimetry',
                'geotrek.core',
                'geotrek.infrastructure',
                'geotrek.signage',
                'geotrek.maintenance',
                'geotrek.zoning',
                'geotrek.land',
                'geotrek.trekking',
                'geotrek.tourism',
                'geotrek.flatpages',
                'geotrek.feedback',
                'geotrek.api',
              )

Trail model enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This parameter allows enabling or disabling the Trail module:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: trail-model-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TRAIL_MODEL_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TRAIL_MODEL_ENABLED = False

Landedge model enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This parameter allows enabling or disabling the Landedge module:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: landedge-model-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration
    
         .. code-block:: python
    
                LANDEDGE_MODEL_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                LANDEDGE_MODEL_ENABLED = False
                
Tourism enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This setting enables or disables tourism-related menus, such as touristic content and events:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: tourism-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TOURISM_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TOURISM_ENABLED = False

Flatpages enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flatpages are used in Geotrek-rando and Geotrek-mobile. This setting allows enabling or disabling them in the Django menus:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: flatpages-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                FLATPAGES_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                FLATPAGES_ENABLED = False

Accessibility attachments enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This setting enables or disables the accessibility menu for attachments:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: accessibility-attachements-enabled-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ACCESSIBILITY_ATTACHMENTS_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ACCESSIBILITY_ATTACHMENTS_ENABLED = False

.. note::
  - Disabling some modules may cause compatibility issues during software upgrades.
  - If you seek community support, mention any customizations you have made.

Paths
------

Allow path deletion 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``False``, paths that are linked to at least one topology cannot be deleted:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: allow-path-deletion-topology-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALLOW_PATH_DELETION_TOPOLOGY = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALLOW_PATH_DELETION_TOPOLOGY = True

Alert draft
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``True``, managers will receive an email notification whenever a path is changed to draft:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: alert-draft-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_DRAFT = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_DRAFT = True

Alert review
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If set to ``True``, managers will receive an email notification whenever an object that can be validated is moved to review mode:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: alert-review-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_REVIEW = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                ALERT_REVIEW = True

Signage and Blade
-------------------

These parameters enable or disable submodules for signage blades and lines:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: signage-blade-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_ENABLED = True
                LINE_ENABLED = True

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_ENABLED = False
                LINE_ENABLED = True

These parameters are used to have ``direction`` field on lines instead of blades.

.. md-tab-set::
  :name: direction-on-lines-enabled-tabs

  .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

      .. code-block:: python

              DIRECTION_ON_LINES_ENABLED = False

  .. md-tab-item:: Example

      .. code-block:: python

              DIRECTION_ON_LINES_ENABLED = True

Blade code type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can change the type of the blade code field (string or integer):

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: blade-code-type-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_CODE_TYPE = INT

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                BLADE_CODE_TYPE = STR


Blade code format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can modify the format of blade codes:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: blade-code-format-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

              BLADE_CODE_FORMAT = "{signagecode}-{bladenumber}"

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. info::
            Example display: ``CD99.XIDNZEIU.01 (first blade of XIDNZEIU)``

          .. code-block:: python
      
                BLADE_CODE_FORMAT = "CD99.{signagecode}.{bladenumber}"
        
Line code format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can modify the format of line codes. This setting is used in CSV exports for lines:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: line-code-format-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LINE_CODE_FORMAT = "{signagecode}-{bladenumber}-{linenumber}"

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. info::
            Example display: ``CD99.XIDNZEIU-01.02``

          .. code-block:: python
      
                LINE_CODE_FORMAT = "CD99.{signagecode}-{bladenumber}.{linenumber}"
         
.. _trek-poi-intersection:

POI
----

Trek POI intersection margin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can define a buffer around treks to intersect POIs (works only without dynamic segmentation).

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: trek-poi-intersection-marging-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TREK_POI_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 500  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
                TREK_POI_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 800  # meters

Tourism intersection margin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Defines the distance within which tourist content, events, treks, POIs, and services are displayed.

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: tourism-intersection-margin-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

            TOURISM_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 500  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. code-block:: python

            TOURISM_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 800  # meters

.. note::
  This distance can be customized per trek practice in the admin interface.

Land
-----

You can insert circulation and authorization types using this command:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-circulation-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/land/fixtures/circulations.json

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/land/fixtures/circulations.json

.. _outdoor:

Outdoor
--------

Installed app for Outdoor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable the Outdoor module, add the following code to the custom settings file:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS += ('geotrek.outdoor', )

Then run:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: install-outdoor-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo dpkg-reconfigure -pcritical geotrek-admin

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web update.sh

To insert Outdoor minimal data:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-outdoor-minimal-data-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/outdoor/fixtures/basic.json

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/outdoor/fixtures/basic.json

After installing the Outdoor module, you need to add permissions to user groups for outdoor sites and courses.

.. note::
  - The Outdoor module is not compatible with PostGIS <= 2.4, included in Ubuntu 18.04.
  - Upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04 or upgrade PostGIS to 2.5 via https://launchpad.net/~ubuntugis/+archive/ubuntu/ppa


.. _sensitivity:

Sensitive areas
-----------------

.. note::
    - The sensitivity module was developed as part of the Biodiv'Sports project to provide a central platform for managing sensitive areas.

    - The official address of the Geotrek instance for Biodiv'Sports is: https://biodiv-sports.fr, which serves as the base URL for API calls.

Installed app for Sensitive areas
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable the Sensitivity module, add the following code to the custom settings file:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS += ('geotrek.sensitivity', )

To insert sensitivity area rules:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: loaddata-sensitivity-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: With Debian

         .. code-block:: bash
    
                sudo geotrek loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/rules.json
                cp -r /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/upload/rules/ /opt/geotrek-admin/var/media/upload/

    .. md-tab-item:: With Docker

         .. code-block:: python
    
                docker compose run --rm web ./manage.py loaddata /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/rules.json
                cp -r /opt/geotrek-admin/lib/python*/site-packages/geotrek/sensitivity/fixtures/upload/rules/ /opt/geotrek-admin/var/media/upload/

Sensitivity default radius
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Defines the radius of sensitivity areas when not specified for species:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: sensitivity-default-radius-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVITY_DEFAULT_RADIUS = 100  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVITY_DEFAULT_RADIUS = 200  # meters

Sensitive area intersection margin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Defines the buffer around treks to intersect sensitive areas:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: sensitive-areas-intersection-margin-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVE_AREA_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 500  # meters

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

        .. code-block:: python

                SENSITIVE_AREA_INTERSECTION_MARGIN = 800  # meters

.. note::
  If you modify this value after adding data, you must update the buffered geometry in SQL:
  ``UPDATE sensitivity_sensitivearea SET geom_buffered = ST_BUFFER(geom, <your new value>);``

.. seealso::
  See :ref:`Sensitive area import section <sensitive-areas-import>` for data import instructions.

Zoning
--------

These parameters enable or disable zoning combo-boxes in the list map view:

.. md-tab-set::
    :name: zoning-combo-boxes-tabs

    .. md-tab-item:: Default configuration

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LAND_BBOX_CITIES_ENABLED = True
              LAND_BBOX_DISTRICTS_ENABLED = True
              LAND_BBOX_AREAS_ENABLED = False

    .. md-tab-item:: Example

         .. code-block:: python
    
              LAND_BBOX_CITIES_ENABLED = False
              LAND_BBOX_DISTRICTS_ENABLED = False
              LAND_BBOX_AREAS_ENABLED = False

.. image:: ../images/advanced-configuration/zoning-combo-boxes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Zoning combo boxes
